eons ago Bor father of Odin clashes with
the Dark Elf
Malekith who seeks to unleash a weapon
known as the ether on the nine realms
after conquering Mallika's forces
including enhanced warriors called the
cursor on their home world of Sparta
Hamm bore safeguards the aether within a
stone column
unbeknownst to Bohr Malekith has a
lieutenant Algrim and a handful of Dark
Elves escaped into suspended animation
in present-day Asgard
Loki stands in prison for his war crimes
on earth meanwhile Thor alongside
warriors Fandral vol snake and SIF repel
Marauders on vanaheim home of their
comrade Hogan it is the final battle in
a war to pacify the nine realms
following the reconstruction of the
Bifrost The Rainbow Bridge between
realms which had been destroyed two
years earlier the Asgardian soon learned
that the convergence a rare alignment of
the nine realms is imminent as the event
approaches portals linking the worlds
appear at random in London
astrophysicist dr. Jane Foster and her
intern Darcy Lewis traveled to an
abandoned Factory where such portals
have appeared
disrupting the laws of physics around
them separating from the group
Jane is teleported to another world
where she is infected by the aether
Heimdall alerts Thor that Jane has moved
beyond his near all-seeing vision
leading Thor to earth when Thor finds
Jane she inadvertently releases an
unearthly force and Thor returns with
her to Asgard Odin recognizes into the
ether warns that the ether will not only
kill Jane but that its return heralds a
catastrophic prophecy
Malekith awakened by the ethers release
turns Algrim into a curse it of attacks
Asgard during the battle Malekith and
halgrim search for Jane sensing that she
contained the ether Thor's mother Frigga
is killed protecting Jane and Malekith
and Algrim are forced to flee without
Jane despite Odin's orders not to leave
Asgard Thor reluctantly enlists the help
of Loki who knows of a secret portal
this fertile found where they will use
Jane to lure and confront Malekith away
from Asgard in return Thor promises Loki
vengeance on Malekith for killing their
mother with Volstagg and sift stalling
Asgardian soldiers and Fandral assisting
their escape Thor Loki and Jane had to
follow them there Loki tricks Malekith
into drawing the ether out of Jane but
Thor's attempt to destroy the exposed
substance fails
Malekith merges with the ether and
leaves in a ship as Loki is fatally
wounded while killing Algrim Thor
cradling Loki in his arms promises to
tell their father of his sacrifice
afterwards
Thor and Jane discover another portal in
a nearby cave and reunite in London with
Darcy and Jane's mentor dr. Erik Selvig
who was briefly institutionalized due to
the mental trauma he suffered during
Loki's attack on earth they learned that
Malekith plans to restore the Dark Elves
to dominance by unleashing the ether at
the center of the convergence in
Greenwich Thor battles Malekith through
various portals and across multiple
worlds until one portal separates them
leaving Malekith unopposed on earth Thor
returns in time to help his mortal
comrades and use their scientific
equipment to transport Malekith to
Sparta fam where he is crushed by his
own damaged ship Thor returns to Asgard
where he declines Odin's offer to take
the throne and tells Odin of Loki's
sacrifice as he leaves
Odin's form transforms into Loki who is
alive and impersonating Odin in a
mid-credits scene
Volstagg and SIF visit the collector and
entrust the ether to his care commenting
that with the tesseract already in
Asgard having two Infinity stones so
close together would be dangerous as
they leave the collector remarks one
five to go in a post-credits scene Jane
and Thor reunite on earth while
somewhere in London a frost monster from
Jotunheim accidentally transported to
earth during the battle continues to run
amok
you